You have a lot of options as a 12th-grade Computer Science student. Here are some of the best computer science courses you can take after you finish high school.

1. Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science
B.Tech in Computer Science is one of the most popular and lucrative courses after 12th Computer Science. Because of the high need for B.Tech in Computer Science in the industry and its applications, it is quite popular.

As a B.Tech Computer Science student, you will learn about computer science fundamentals and applications in a variety of fields; you will be familiar with computer programming and its various concepts, such as computer software, algorithms, program design, programming languages, computer hardware, computation, and many others.

Because B.Tech Computer Science is one of the most in-demand degrees, you may face stiff competition while studying it. IITs, NITs, IIITs, BITS Pilani, and other prestigious institutions award this degree.

You can pursue a variety of lucrative occupations after completing this course, including Software Engineer, Software Developer, Data Scientist, and others. In India, a B.Tech in Computer Science graduate earns INR 7.3 lakh per year on average. With experience and expertise, you can earn up to INR 20 lakh per year in this sector.

2. Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology
Another popular study option for computer science students is the B.Tech in Information Technology. In terms of curriculum and goals, it differs from the B.Tech in Computer Science. While a B.Tech in Computer Science prepares you to understand many elements of computer programming and concepts, a B.Tech in Information Technology concentrates on information theory and management.

You'll learn about networking, database management, programming, and a variety of other topics in IT. It's a fantastic course for those interested in pursuing a career in technology. In terms of pay and advancement prospects, the IT industry has been fairly generous.

This degree will assist you in efficiently entering the field. Its excellent packages and salaries are one of the main reasons why it is such a popular choice among students. A B.Tech in Information Technology graduate can expect to earn INR 7 lakh per year on average. So, if you're asking yourself, "What should I do after 12th Computer Science?" A B.Tech in Information Technology would be a fantastic answer.

3. B.C.A. (Bachelor of Computer Application)
Aside from engineering courses, there are a variety of additional Computer Science courses to choose from. BCA is a popular course among Computer Science students (Bachelor of Computer Application).

The theory and applications of computer science will be covered in the BCA course. It introduces you to computer principles and includes related topics such as Software Development, Database Management Systems, Theoretical Computer Science, Artificial Intelligence, and Computer Networks, among others.

It's an excellent course for those interested in a career in technology. To seek further employment in the tech industry, you can augment this degree with a specialist study.

Career Options 

1. Software Engineer
Software engineering is one of the most popular post-secondary options in computer science. Software engineers are essential in the creation and development of software. To construct the product, they collaborate with software designers and developers.

A software engineer organizes multiple programming tasks for various areas of software development, which are then combined to form a fully functional program. Software engineers are involved in the development and design of software.


They are in charge of laying out the process's automated duties. Accenture, Tata Consultancy Services, Infosys, and Tech Mahindra are among the top employers for this position.

2. Expert in Cloud Computing
You can also pursue a career in cloud computing. It's one of the highest-paying jobs in the tech industry. Cloud computing is the field concerned with the creation and implementation of cloud-based technologies.

Cloud technology and its different functions should be familiar to you. As more firms turn to cloud computing, the demand for cloud computing expertise has increased as well. It is one of the most in-demand abilities, and learning the requisite skills will help you land a rewarding job.

Solutions Architect, DevOps Engineer, Technical Architect, and other roles are common in this industry.

3. Data Scientist
Data scientist is a relatively new and well-paying job option for Computer Science majors. As a data scientist, you'll be in charge of gathering and analyzing enormous amounts of data in order to solve business challenges. In India, a data scientist earns an average of INR 8.14 lakh a year. Beginners in this field can expect to make roughly INR 3.43 lakh per year, with the potential to earn up to INR 20 lakh per year with expertise.
